# Job seeker profiling
Since 2015, the Danish Agency for Labour Market and Recruitment (STAR) has used a profile clarification tool on job seekers in order to help the unemployed return to the labor market. The tool assesses the citizen’s risk of long-term unemployment. Based on the tool’s results, the caseworker can, together with the citizen, organize a process that is adapted to the individual to get them back into work (this interaction takes place at the job centre, where the unemployed citizen receives unemployment benefits). This thesis outlines the motivation and logic behind the tool while also analyzing the social impact. The findings outline the difference in profiling across borders. While Denmark has chosen a transparent approach, other countries have decided not to disclose the features used in the analysis or the final classification, pointing at demotivation, stigmatization, and the fear of self-fulfilling prophecies. Another finding concerns the social impact, where I examine the excessive number of conversations that non-Western immigrants’ descendants deal with based on origin, which suggests that more conversations are being held with these descendants than with citizens of Danish origin. Lastly, I present how STAR can remove potential discriminatory features by introducing a Random Forest model where origin does not have significant importance (removing origin from the data set decreases the precision from 70.13% to 70.10%). Based on the results, my recommendation to STAR is to undergo steps to substitute the current model with a Random Forest model.

An article has been written regarding my work: https://www.zetland.dk/historie/sOMVZ7qG-aOz9m93B-a30b8
